Codify self-driving positioning nuance across handbook (#17597)
PostHog/posthog.com: contents/handbook/marketing/positioning/index.md

showTitle: true
---

> PostHog ships a lot of apps. This section is how we explain each one — what it does, who it's for, why it beats the obvious alternative, and how it fits into the bigger argument we're making about [self-driving product development](/blog/self-driving-product).

Author: ```suggestion
PostHog ships a lot of apps, which act as capabilities our products can access. This section is how we explain each one — what it does, who it's for, why it beats the obvious alternative, and how it fits into the bigger argument we're making about [self-driving product development](/blog/self-driving-product).
```

These aren't datasheets. They're opinionated playbooks.

> > **The house position:** **PostHog makes _your_ product self-driving.** Every product page ladders up to that — each one is a signal source, a way agents act, or the evaluation that proves it worked. Keep the customer's product as the subject: they get a product that improves itself; PostHog is how. Don't write "PostHog is self-driving software" in customer-facing copy. (We do use the same capabilities on PostHog itself — that's a proof point, not the pitch.) Full nuance in the [content brand guidelines](/handbook/content/brand-message).

Author: ```suggestion
> **The house position:** **PostHog makes _your_ product self-driving.** Every product page ladders up to that — each one is a signal source, a way agents act, or the evaluation that proves it worked. Keep the customer's product as the subject: they get a product that improves itself; PostHog is how. Don't write "PostHog is self-driving software" in customer-facing copy. We do use the same capabilities on PostHog itself — that's a proof point, not the pitch.
```

These aren't datasheets. They're opinionated playbooks.

> > **The house position:** **PostHog makes _your_ product self-driving.** Every product page ladders up to that — each one is a signal source, a way agents act, or the evaluation that proves it worked. Keep the customer's product as the subject: they get a product that improves itself; PostHog is how. Don't write "PostHog is self-driving software" in customer-facing copy. (We do use the same capabilities on PostHog itself — that's a proof point, not the pitch.) Full nuance in the [content brand guidelines](/handbook/content/brand-message).

Reviewer: it says "full nuance" in brand guidelines but the paragraph there is basically the exact same thing.

## What this isn't

- **Not a feature list.** That's what [the docs](/docs) are for.
- **Not static.** Apps evolve, pricing changes, and competitors ship things. Treat every page as the current best version, not the final one.

If something here feels off, doesn't match what the product team is actually building, or contradicts itself across pages — open a PR or flag it in #ask-marketing.

## How we describe our products

We've repositioned around self-driving. That only works if we all use the same words for the layers of what we offer – the same words across marketing, content, and positioning. This is the canonical vocabulary. When in doubt, match it.

### What is PostHog?

The quick mental model:

> - **What is it?** A single platform that makes your product self-driving.

Author: ```suggestion
- **What is it?** A single platform for self-driving product development.
```

- **How does it work?** It pairs the full context of your data (events, errors, logs, replays, and more) with agents that ship improvements – reactively (prompted, e.g. via Slack) or proactively (e.g. via the Inbox).
- **Who's it for?** Developers, and anyone with the duty or desire to do technical work, whether or not they write the code themselves.
- **Where does it live?** Through four products: Web (app.posthog.com), Slack, Desktop (PostHog Code), and MCP.

### The standard description

Use this whenever you need a standard description of PostHog:

> PostHog is the platform for self-driving products. It pairs the full context of your data (events, errors, logs, replays, and more) with agents that enable you to ship better products, faster. Agents can work reactively (e.g. prompted via Slack) or proactively (e.g. via the Inbox), so your product becomes entirely self-driving.

### Self-driving is the story, not a layer

> Self-driving is the narrative everything sits under. PostHog makes your product development self-driving – a better version of you, with your product and all its context in one place. It isn't a product or an app you can point at. It's what PostHog now is. Don't write "the self-driving product" or "the self-driving app." And keep the customer's product as the subject – see [Things PostHog is not](/handbook/content/brand-message#things-posthog-is-not).

Author: ```suggestion
Self-driving is the narrative everything sits under. PostHog makes your product development self-driving – a better version of you, with your product and all its context in one place. It isn't a product or an app you can point at. It's what PostHog is and enables. Don't write "PostHog is a self-driving product" or "the self-driving app." Keep the customer's product as the subject – see [Things PostHog is not](/handbook/content/brand-message#things-posthog-is-not).
```

### The four layers

Under that story, everything we offer is one of four things. Use these exactly.

> **Products** – the surfaces a customer adopts and pays for. This is how you access self-driving. Each has a distinct job:

Author: ```suggestion
**Products** – the surfaces a customer adopts. This is how you access self-driving. Each has a distinct job:
```

- **Slack** (the Slack App) – get simple stuff done
- **Desktop** (PostHog Code) – get complex stuff done
- **MCP** – reactive work without leaving Claude or your editor
- **Web** (app.posthog.com) – get simple or complex work done without installing anything

> **Apps** – the functional capabilities: product analytics, session replay, feature flags, experiments, error tracking, surveys, web analytics, and so on. Still here, deliberately secondary. They support self-driving; they aren't the headline. We're demoting them, not dropping them.

Author: ```suggestion
**Apps** – the functional capabilities accessed through the products product analytics, session replay, feature flags, experiments, error tracking, surveys, web analytics, and so on.
```

**Context** – the data that feeds the self-driving loop: events, recordings, errors, logs, and so on. This is the fuel.

> **Context warehouse** – the data warehouse plus the full context-ingestion pipeline for your product. It's a named thing, and a significant part of how we bill.

Author: ```suggestion
**Context warehouse** – the data warehouse plus the full context-ingestion pipeline for your product.
```
